README.md, before:

## On this page
{:.no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction

This handbook describes how we run the Developer Experience and Community Success team at the Linux Foundation. If you are viewing the markdown soources on the repository, you can also view the rendered documentation at [the handbook site](https://linuxfoundation.github.io/devex-and-commsuccess/). The site is generally the best URL to bookmark and share.

All team members are [encouraged to contribute to the handbook](how-to-edit-the-handbook).

## Communication

### 1-on-1s

1. Review this [one-on-one format and guidance](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/leadership/1-1/) for reference and inspiration. We’re not expected to implement all recommendations there, though.
   1. Use a simple document format: add date for each 1:1 session and a bullet point agenda
   1. Use a numbered list to easily refer to a specific agenda point verbally and avoid confusion, in particular if we jump through points during the call
   1. Prepend the topic with your name
   1. Keep points succinct, feel free to expand to subpoints when necessary
   1. [Example 1:1 document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V9N0gdn_bZS1aJ_S3aTp7kiROBZ8LAvu-Kb5hekciiA)
1. Weekly cadence. Generally 25 minutes. The first set of 1:1s will be 40 minutes for your manager and you to get to know each other.
   1. Your manager will be open to extending the time when needed.
   1. Feel free to modify the calendar event to extend the time or to reschedule. The calendar invite owner, generally your manager, will ensure that the event is editable by guests. All edits will be welcome.
1. You and your manager co-own this document. Both of you are expected to add relevant content.
1. The document will be confidential to both you and your manager. This provides the ability to conduct conversations on confidential issues or to have performance and career-related discussions.
1. While status updates are welcome when relevant, 1:1 should not be dominated by updates, which can also go on the weekly reports. Instead, feel free to use to discuss concerns about your role and project, career development, and other topics that can help you succeed in your role.
1. Consider using the 1:1 doc as a live document and as a tool to capture thoughts or discussions you'd find useful to have with your manager. You can keep a bookmark to the document and add these points throughout the week, instead of a few minutes before the 1:1 call. This also helps each party review the agenda and be prepared for the call in advance.
1. Agenda items in the 1:1 will generally not be urgent. For items that are urgent, do not wait to the next 1:1 and reach out to your manager directly - generally Slack or e-mail.
1. Your manager will be receptive and open to suggestions and improvements on this 1:1 format.

### Team meeting

1. We'll be meeting as a team once a week for coordination, alignment and collaboration purposes
1. The [team meeting agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qa1m5FhZu6QRp42E-_mXp2_Tj5Y8h3JazYvemLwhI9E/edit) will be prepared in advance, using a similar format as described for [1-on-1s](#1-on-1s). Everyone in the team can contribute to the agenda and is encouraged to add topics that are relevant for discussion or visibility for the whole team.
1. To add a topic, simply add your name and a description of the topic you'd like to discuss –and be prepared to lead the discussion.
1. Everyone is encouraged to contribute with note-taking during the call. Meetings can also be recorded.
1. Notes and recordings should allow those not being able to attend in person to catch up async in their own time.

### Weekly reports

Each individual team member provides weekly updates to their manager, generally on a Friday. The main goals for these updates are: to provide awareness to leadership and peers on the projects’ and the team’s achievements, share knowledge and identify team-wide best practices, celebrate collaboration and to act on early warnings in order to neutralize concerns.

Instructions:

1. Make one single copy of the [Weekly status report template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CxZ30C0MfLB6TyeVP1I64InSRNa4YQE0MVWBSEDK2EM/edit) document and replace the title with your name. You'll be adding content to your one document every week.
1. Leave the sharing permissions set to "The Linux Foundation" and "Edit". If you are sharing confidential information, consider changing the people to share with to "Developer Experience and Community Success Team".
1. Add a link to your weekly report document to the links section of your [1:1 with your manager](#1-on-1s).
1. Add a link to your weekly report document to the links section of the [Developer Experience and Community Success team meeting agenda](#team-meeting).

Content format:

1. **Concerns**: any concerns you have about the project or your work
1. **Projects key accomplishments and contributions**: tell us what the projects you are working with accomplished and how you helped
1. **Kudos**: high fives to people who really helped out

Writing guidelines:

1. Keep the updates relatively short - akin to a weekly newsletter
1. Use [ISO dates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Calendar_dates) (YYYY-MM-DD) in a multicultural environment, since [other formats lead to confusion](http://xkcd.com/1179/) :).
1. Strive to use [low-context communication](https://about.gitlab.com/company/culture/all-remote/effective-communication/#understanding-low-context-communication). Provide as much context as necessary to avoid uncertainty or confusion.
1. Add links where relevant for the reader to learn more about a specific update.

### Contacting the team

You can reach out to the whole Developer Experience and Community Success team in a manner of ways depending of the communication channel:

1. **Slack**: for general questions and conversations, feel free to join the [Developer Experience and Community Success Slack channel](https://linuxfoundation.slack.com/messages/devex-and-commsuccess). Generally a team member or someone who collaborates with the team will respond in a reasonable timeframe. If you know who you ask a specific question, feel free to mention them directly using their Slack handle.
   1. You can use the `@devex-and-comsuccess` handle to mention the whole group, from any channel within the Linux Foundation Slack workspace. It is more selective than using Slack's standard handles: [@channel](https://slack.com/help/articles/202009646-Notify-a-channel-or-workspace#u64channel) (as it sends a notification only to members of the group) and more direct than using [@here](https://slack.com/help/articles/202009646-Notify-a-channel-or-workspace#u64here) (as it sends a notification to all members of the group, regardless of their online status). Use it only when you really require the whole group's attention (e.g. important team notifications).
1. **E-mail**: you can use the `devex-and-commsuccess@linuxfoundation.org` address to send an e-mail to all team members. Currently only Linux Foundation members can send e-mail to that address, but it could potentially be open to external addresses if there is a future use case for that need. Use it if you need to discuss a topic or make an announcement more confidentially with the group.

### Comms channels

1. [Developer Experience and Community Success Slack channel](https://linuxfoundation.slack.com/messages/devex-and-commsuccess): the team's main communication channel for discussion and sharing knowledge related to our projects and communities. All members of the team are part of the channel, which is also open to anyone else in the organization who either wants to follow the work, ask questions or simply hang out to join. It is a public Slack channel for LF team members only.
1. [Community hangout Slack channel](https://linuxfoundation.slack.com/messages/community-hangout): the team's social channel. This is a space to share non-work related stories. What did you do last weekend? Show off your pets, show us your last family holiday pics, memes... In summary, a space to get to know each other by offering a window into what we're doing when we're not in front of the computer working. All team members are included by default, but it's voluntary to join/leave the channel. Feel free to share as much or as little as you like.

## Acronym Glossary

This is just a start. Please add any acronyms that your projects use! 

* **ED - Executive Director**
    * ED's job is to execute the directives of the board, in the best interests of the project. This often includes guiding the Board Chair in the fulfillment of their duties to the board in setting agendas and running the meeting.
* **GB - Governing Board**
   * The Governing Board is responsible for overall management of the Directed Fund. This includes budget approvals that are usually assembled in advance by the Treasurer and/or ED and then approved by vote during a board meeting.
* **MAC - Marketing Advisory Committee**
   * The MAC oversees all marketing efforts for the project.
* **OC - Outreach Committee**
   * The OC oversees all marketing and outreach efforts for the project. Projects usually will have either a MAC or an OC. 
* **SPC - Strategic Planning Committee**
   * The SPC is a subcommittee of the GB functioning as a communication channel between the GB and the TAC project leadership for collaboration and providing strategic guidance
* **TAC - Technical Advisory Committee**
   * TAC’s are usually only seen in umbrella projects. The role of the TAC in umbrella typically is to manage the project lifecycle, provide common infrastructure for hosted projects ( communications, build/CI, code hosting and management ), and resolve any escalated project issues or concerns. 
* **TSC - Technical Steering Committee**
   * The TSC is the leadership of the project. This committee's primary role is to set the overall direction of the project, ensure the project community has the needed resources and infrastructure to succeed, resolve any issues within the project community, and provide project updates to the TAC (if the project has a TAC).
* **TOC - Technical Oversight Committee**
   * See TAC definition. Projects usually will have either a TOC or TAC.

## Tooling

* [1Password](https://1password.com/)
    * Credential management 
    * 1Password offers a [free Teams account for Open Source projects](https://github.com/1Password/1password-teams-open-source).
* [Credly](https://credly.com/)
    * Digital badge management 
* [LFX Insights](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/)
    * Insights gives you complete visibility into project performance and ecosystem trends. Understand your contributor community and make informed decisions with these analytics and reporting tools.
    * [LFX Insights Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/insights)
* [LFX Project Control Center](https://projectadmin.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/) (PCC)
    * PCC provides operations support across governance, IT, and product management needs.
    * This is where you update your project committees, enable email forwarding, set up mailing lists, onboard your projects to LFX Insights, LFX Security, EasyCLA, etc.
    * [LFX Project Control Center Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/project-control-center-pre-release')
* [LFX Organization Dashboard](https://myorg.lfx.dev/)
    * Organization dashboard also known as company dashboard is a one hub to provide management and visibility to all organization activities with Linux Foundation services as projects memberships, Linux Foundation events, training and certifications, projects analysis and insights, CLA, security, funding and mentorship.
    * This is where you update membership roles, company logos, and access member contracts.
    * [LFX Organization Dashboard Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/organization-dashboard-pre-release)
* [LFX Security](https://security.lfx.dev/)
    * The LFX Security tool provides the following functionalities with respect to the open source project code:
        * Vulnerabilities Detection - To detect vulnerabilities in your code and provide fixes and recommendations to those vulnerabilities.
        * Code Secrets - Detect secrets such as passwords, credentials, keys, access tokens which might help hackers to hack your code.
        * Non Inclusive Language - Detects non inclusive words used in your code which might hurt and treat people unfairly.
    * [LFX Security Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/security)
* [LFX Mentorship](https://mentorship.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/)
    * LFX Mentorship is a tool that makes it easier than ever to pair promising open source talent with experienced mentors.
    * [LFX Mentorship Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/mentorship)
* [LFX EasyCLA](https://easycla.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/#/)
    * LFX EasyCLA streamlines the contribution process for open source projects that use [Contributor License Agreements (CLAs)](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/easycla#what-is-a-cla), by streamlining workflows for project maintainers, contributors, and organizations whose employees are contributing to the project.
    * [LFX EasyCLA Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/easycla)
* [Hubspot](https://www.hubspot.com/)
    * CRM platform that has all the tools and integrations you need for marketing, sales, content management, and customer service
* [OpaVote](https://www.opavote.com/)
    * Election and polls
    * Information on how to set up an election in OpaVote can be found [here](https://confluence.linuxfoundation.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=70484713).
* [SurveyMonkey](https://www.surveymonkey.com/user/sign-in/)
    * Survey tool
    * Join the LF Enterprise account by following these steps:
         1. Go to [SurveyMonkey Login ](https://www.surveymonkey.com/user/sign-in/)
         2. Select Log in with Google account 
         3. Create New Account 
         4. Join Enterprise team (it will recognize your domain and add you to the LF "team" account)

## Ticket/Request Submissions

A list of places to submit various types of tickets/requests within the LF. Please help to add/edit over time. 

* [LF Support Center (Jira Service Desk)](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portals/category/4)
    * Central location for submitting tickets related to Project Services, LFX Support, Training & Certification, Member Support, and LF Events
* [Membership Ops Desk](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/25)
    * Membership operations support for items such as Auto Join, Billing Address/Contact Changes, Custom Salesforce Reports, Membership Cancellations/Upgrades/Downgrades, Quote Requests, and Invoice Changes
    * [Membership Ops Desk FAQ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P1K3kzuhaRIoOwj117XB_5SOMjqj2r-ZwZFCFyal6W0/edit)
* [Marketing Services Requests](https://linuxfoundation.org/marketing-requests/)
    * Requests for Design, Website, PR/Communications, and Digital Marketing
* [Legal Requests](https://legaljira.linuxfoundation.org/servicedesk/customer/portal/1)
    * Requests for legal requests related to Contracts, Trademark, Export Control, and Other
* [Project Formation Intake Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeO1bDGHUP-ZpCo1uynm94YOxZlek6RhCH7o3FnX1lZSXXfSQ/viewform)
   * Submission form to spin up a new project with formation team

## How to set up a third party contract vendor

These steps apply to either agencies or individuals.

1. The vendor either: 
   1. Creates a scope of work (SOW) outlining what they will be doing and what it will cost. This is the preferred method. 
   1. Creates a legal agreement that includes a SOW. This method requires the LF Legal team to review the contract before approving it for LF to sign. 
2. The vendor sends either their SOW or their legal agreement to the LF internal contact, usually the Program Manager. 
3. The LF internal contact goes to [staff.linuxfoundation.org](staff.linuxfoundation.org) and opens the ‘[HR Finance Ops](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/21)’ portal.
4. Inside the HR Finance Ops portal, click the ‘[Contractor & Vendor Requests](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/21/create/462)’ option and fill out the form. 
   1. In order to complete the form you will need this information from the contractor:
   1. Vendor name
   1. Name of signatory for contract
   1. Email address of signatory for contract
   1. Contractor’s physical mailing address
   1. Contractor start date
   1. Contractor duration
   1. Contractor type: individual or agency
   1. New contract or extension to an existing contractor agreement (requires LF Legal review)
   1. Standard LF contract (preferred) or 
   1. LF department or Project the contractor will be working for
   1. Description of work to align it with the correct budget code (ex: Marketing)
   1. Compensation type: hourly, salary, other
   1. Compensation amount
   1. Compensation max budget
   1. Name of LF internal manager
   1. Scope of work provided by the vendor (provided as an attachment)
5. You will receive a notification from Jira that your form has been submitted. 
6. Your request will be reviewed by the LF Finance team to ensure the department or project’s budget has enough revenue to cover the new expense.
7. Once approved by LF Finance, The LF HR Finance Ops team will create a Docusign agreement. You will receive a notification that the agreement is “out for signature” when it is sent to the first signatory. 
   1. The Docusign agreement is first sent to the Finance lead for that department or project for them to sign. 
   1. It is then routed to the LF internal manager (who will manage the contractor) for them to sign.
   1. Finally it is sent to the contract vendor for them to sign.
8. Once all three parties have signed the document you will receive a copy of it from Docusign. The three parties who signed it will also receive a copy.  
9. When it's time to pay, the vendor emails their invoice to the LF internal manager for them to review it. Once they approve payment on the invoice they forward it to [AP@Linuxfoundation.org](mailto:AP@Linuxfoundation.org) notifying them that the invoice is approved for payment. 
10. The LF Accounts Payable department will pay the invoice. 

## How to Change Member Roles
1. Project members should use the [Member Support Desk](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NHPRGfcyg8FVNlRC9-HX-hOIYbafXxtu5Bie3wNCvSg/edit?usp=sharing) to report changes in project roles.  If there are exceptions, and you feel like you need to do this yourself, please add the use case to this section of the handbook. To process a role change on behalf of a member organization (not recommended), open a Jira in the [Staff portal](https://staff.linuxfoundation.org/) and go to Membership and Sales Ops.
2. LF Operations will update the CRM (Customer Relationship Management, currently Salesforce, moving to Hubspot.) 
3. After LF Operations updates the CRM, they will notify the Project Administrator on the Jira. The Project Administrator updates the Project Control Center ([PCC](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/project-control-center-pre-release)) and the [Organization Dashboard](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i_0rHkjOzpqUOW5kTA4y_Y5taFR8-oRjwvmU3ME3VJ0/edit?usp=sharing). 
4. Best practice is to refresh all the roles for the organization in that project to keep all contacts up to date.

Commit message:

Adding non-LFX spaces that need to be updated
Signed-off-by: Neal Caidin <ncaidin@linuxfoundation.org>

README.md, after:

## On this page
{:.no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction

This handbook describes how we run the Developer Experience and Community Success team at the Linux Foundation. If you are viewing the markdown soources on the repository, you can also view the rendered documentation at [the handbook site](https://linuxfoundation.github.io/devex-and-commsuccess/). The site is generally the best URL to bookmark and share.

All team members are [encouraged to contribute to the handbook](how-to-edit-the-handbook).

## Communication

### 1-on-1s

1. Review this [one-on-one format and guidance](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/leadership/1-1/) for reference and inspiration. We’re not expected to implement all recommendations there, though.
   1. Use a simple document format: add date for each 1:1 session and a bullet point agenda
   1. Use a numbered list to easily refer to a specific agenda point verbally and avoid confusion, in particular if we jump through points during the call
   1. Prepend the topic with your name
   1. Keep points succinct, feel free to expand to subpoints when necessary
   1. [Example 1:1 document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V9N0gdn_bZS1aJ_S3aTp7kiROBZ8LAvu-Kb5hekciiA)
1. Weekly cadence. Generally 25 minutes. The first set of 1:1s will be 40 minutes for your manager and you to get to know each other.
   1. Your manager will be open to extending the time when needed.
   1. Feel free to modify the calendar event to extend the time or to reschedule. The calendar invite owner, generally your manager, will ensure that the event is editable by guests. All edits will be welcome.
1. You and your manager co-own this document. Both of you are expected to add relevant content.
1. The document will be confidential to both you and your manager. This provides the ability to conduct conversations on confidential issues or to have performance and career-related discussions.
1. While status updates are welcome when relevant, 1:1 should not be dominated by updates, which can also go on the weekly reports. Instead, feel free to use to discuss concerns about your role and project, career development, and other topics that can help you succeed in your role.
1. Consider using the 1:1 doc as a live document and as a tool to capture thoughts or discussions you'd find useful to have with your manager. You can keep a bookmark to the document and add these points throughout the week, instead of a few minutes before the 1:1 call. This also helps each party review the agenda and be prepared for the call in advance.
1. Agenda items in the 1:1 will generally not be urgent. For items that are urgent, do not wait to the next 1:1 and reach out to your manager directly - generally Slack or e-mail.
1. Your manager will be receptive and open to suggestions and improvements on this 1:1 format.

### Team meeting

1. We'll be meeting as a team once a week for coordination, alignment and collaboration purposes
1. The [team meeting agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qa1m5FhZu6QRp42E-_mXp2_Tj5Y8h3JazYvemLwhI9E/edit) will be prepared in advance, using a similar format as described for [1-on-1s](#1-on-1s). Everyone in the team can contribute to the agenda and is encouraged to add topics that are relevant for discussion or visibility for the whole team.
1. To add a topic, simply add your name and a description of the topic you'd like to discuss –and be prepared to lead the discussion.
1. Everyone is encouraged to contribute with note-taking during the call. Meetings can also be recorded.
1. Notes and recordings should allow those not being able to attend in person to catch up async in their own time.

### Weekly reports

Each individual team member provides weekly updates to their manager, generally on a Friday. The main goals for these updates are: to provide awareness to leadership and peers on the projects’ and the team’s achievements, share knowledge and identify team-wide best practices, celebrate collaboration and to act on early warnings in order to neutralize concerns.

Instructions:

1. Make one single copy of the [Weekly status report template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CxZ30C0MfLB6TyeVP1I64InSRNa4YQE0MVWBSEDK2EM/edit) document and replace the title with your name. You'll be adding content to your one document every week.
1. Leave the sharing permissions set to "The Linux Foundation" and "Edit". If you are sharing confidential information, consider changing the people to share with to "Developer Experience and Community Success Team".
1. Add a link to your weekly report document to the links section of your [1:1 with your manager](#1-on-1s).
1. Add a link to your weekly report document to the links section of the [Developer Experience and Community Success team meeting agenda](#team-meeting).

Content format:

1. **Concerns**: any concerns you have about the project or your work
1. **Projects key accomplishments and contributions**: tell us what the projects you are working with accomplished and how you helped
1. **Kudos**: high fives to people who really helped out

Writing guidelines:

1. Keep the updates relatively short - akin to a weekly newsletter
1. Use [ISO dates](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Calendar_dates) (YYYY-MM-DD) in a multicultural environment, since [other formats lead to confusion](http://xkcd.com/1179/) :).
1. Strive to use [low-context communication](https://about.gitlab.com/company/culture/all-remote/effective-communication/#understanding-low-context-communication). Provide as much context as necessary to avoid uncertainty or confusion.
1. Add links where relevant for the reader to learn more about a specific update.

### Contacting the team

You can reach out to the whole Developer Experience and Community Success team in a manner of ways depending of the communication channel:

1. **Slack**: for general questions and conversations, feel free to join the [Developer Experience and Community Success Slack channel](https://linuxfoundation.slack.com/messages/devex-and-commsuccess). Generally a team member or someone who collaborates with the team will respond in a reasonable timeframe. If you know who you ask a specific question, feel free to mention them directly using their Slack handle.
   1. You can use the `@devex-and-comsuccess` handle to mention the whole group, from any channel within the Linux Foundation Slack workspace. It is more selective than using Slack's standard handles: [@channel](https://slack.com/help/articles/202009646-Notify-a-channel-or-workspace#u64channel) (as it sends a notification only to members of the group) and more direct than using [@here](https://slack.com/help/articles/202009646-Notify-a-channel-or-workspace#u64here) (as it sends a notification to all members of the group, regardless of their online status). Use it only when you really require the whole group's attention (e.g. important team notifications).
1. **E-mail**: you can use the `devex-and-commsuccess@linuxfoundation.org` address to send an e-mail to all team members. Currently only Linux Foundation members can send e-mail to that address, but it could potentially be open to external addresses if there is a future use case for that need. Use it if you need to discuss a topic or make an announcement more confidentially with the group.

### Comms channels

1. [Developer Experience and Community Success Slack channel](https://linuxfoundation.slack.com/messages/devex-and-commsuccess): the team's main communication channel for discussion and sharing knowledge related to our projects and communities. All members of the team are part of the channel, which is also open to anyone else in the organization who either wants to follow the work, ask questions or simply hang out to join. It is a public Slack channel for LF team members only.
1. [Community hangout Slack channel](https://linuxfoundation.slack.com/messages/community-hangout): the team's social channel. This is a space to share non-work related stories. What did you do last weekend? Show off your pets, show us your last family holiday pics, memes... In summary, a space to get to know each other by offering a window into what we're doing when we're not in front of the computer working. All team members are included by default, but it's voluntary to join/leave the channel. Feel free to share as much or as little as you like.

## Acronym Glossary

This is just a start. Please add any acronyms that your projects use! 

* **ED - Executive Director**
    * ED's job is to execute the directives of the board, in the best interests of the project. This often includes guiding the Board Chair in the fulfillment of their duties to the board in setting agendas and running the meeting.
* **GB - Governing Board**
   * The Governing Board is responsible for overall management of the Directed Fund. This includes budget approvals that are usually assembled in advance by the Treasurer and/or ED and then approved by vote during a board meeting.
* **MAC - Marketing Advisory Committee**
   * The MAC oversees all marketing efforts for the project.
* **OC - Outreach Committee**
   * The OC oversees all marketing and outreach efforts for the project. Projects usually will have either a MAC or an OC. 
* **SPC - Strategic Planning Committee**
   * The SPC is a subcommittee of the GB functioning as a communication channel between the GB and the TAC project leadership for collaboration and providing strategic guidance
* **TAC - Technical Advisory Committee**
   * TAC’s are usually only seen in umbrella projects. The role of the TAC in umbrella typically is to manage the project lifecycle, provide common infrastructure for hosted projects ( communications, build/CI, code hosting and management ), and resolve any escalated project issues or concerns. 
* **TSC - Technical Steering Committee**
   * The TSC is the leadership of the project. This committee's primary role is to set the overall direction of the project, ensure the project community has the needed resources and infrastructure to succeed, resolve any issues within the project community, and provide project updates to the TAC (if the project has a TAC).
* **TOC - Technical Oversight Committee**
   * See TAC definition. Projects usually will have either a TOC or TAC.

## Tooling

* [1Password](https://1password.com/)
    * Credential management 
    * 1Password offers a [free Teams account for Open Source projects](https://github.com/1Password/1password-teams-open-source).
* [Credly](https://credly.com/)
    * Digital badge management 
* [LFX Insights](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/)
    * Insights gives you complete visibility into project performance and ecosystem trends. Understand your contributor community and make informed decisions with these analytics and reporting tools.
    * [LFX Insights Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/insights)
* [LFX Project Control Center](https://projectadmin.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/) (PCC)
    * PCC provides operations support across governance, IT, and product management needs.
    * This is where you update your project committees, enable email forwarding, set up mailing lists, onboard your projects to LFX Insights, LFX Security, EasyCLA, etc.
    * [LFX Project Control Center Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/project-control-center-pre-release')
* [LFX Organization Dashboard](https://myorg.lfx.dev/)
    * Organization dashboard also known as company dashboard is a one hub to provide management and visibility to all organization activities with Linux Foundation services as projects memberships, Linux Foundation events, training and certifications, projects analysis and insights, CLA, security, funding and mentorship.
    * This is where you update membership roles, company logos, and access member contracts.
    * [LFX Organization Dashboard Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/organization-dashboard-pre-release)
* [LFX Security](https://security.lfx.dev/)
    * The LFX Security tool provides the following functionalities with respect to the open source project code:
        * Vulnerabilities Detection - To detect vulnerabilities in your code and provide fixes and recommendations to those vulnerabilities.
        * Code Secrets - Detect secrets such as passwords, credentials, keys, access tokens which might help hackers to hack your code.
        * Non Inclusive Language - Detects non inclusive words used in your code which might hurt and treat people unfairly.
    * [LFX Security Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/security)
* [LFX Mentorship](https://mentorship.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/)
    * LFX Mentorship is a tool that makes it easier than ever to pair promising open source talent with experienced mentors.
    * [LFX Mentorship Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/mentorship)
* [LFX EasyCLA](https://easycla.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/#/)
    * LFX EasyCLA streamlines the contribution process for open source projects that use [Contributor License Agreements (CLAs)](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/easycla#what-is-a-cla), by streamlining workflows for project maintainers, contributors, and organizations whose employees are contributing to the project.
    * [LFX EasyCLA Documentation](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/easycla)
* [Hubspot](https://www.hubspot.com/)
    * CRM platform that has all the tools and integrations you need for marketing, sales, content management, and customer service
* [OpaVote](https://www.opavote.com/)
    * Election and polls
    * Information on how to set up an election in OpaVote can be found [here](https://confluence.linuxfoundation.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=70484713).
* [SurveyMonkey](https://www.surveymonkey.com/user/sign-in/)
    * Survey tool
    * Join the LF Enterprise account by following these steps:
         1. Go to [SurveyMonkey Login ](https://www.surveymonkey.com/user/sign-in/)
         2. Select Log in with Google account 
         3. Create New Account 
         4. Join Enterprise team (it will recognize your domain and add you to the LF "team" account)

## Ticket/Request Submissions

A list of places to submit various types of tickets/requests within the LF. Please help to add/edit over time. 

* [LF Support Center (Jira Service Desk)](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portals/category/4)
    * Central location for submitting tickets related to Project Services, LFX Support, Training & Certification, Member Support, and LF Events
* [Membership Ops Desk](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/25)
    * Membership operations support for items such as Auto Join, Billing Address/Contact Changes, Custom Salesforce Reports, Membership Cancellations/Upgrades/Downgrades, Quote Requests, and Invoice Changes
    * [Membership Ops Desk FAQ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P1K3kzuhaRIoOwj117XB_5SOMjqj2r-ZwZFCFyal6W0/edit)
* [Marketing Services Requests](https://linuxfoundation.org/marketing-requests/)
    * Requests for Design, Website, PR/Communications, and Digital Marketing
* [Legal Requests](https://legaljira.linuxfoundation.org/servicedesk/customer/portal/1)
    * Requests for legal requests related to Contracts, Trademark, Export Control, and Other
* [Project Formation Intake Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeO1bDGHUP-ZpCo1uynm94YOxZlek6RhCH7o3FnX1lZSXXfSQ/viewform)
   * Submission form to spin up a new project with formation team

## How to set up a third party contract vendor

These steps apply to either agencies or individuals.

1. The vendor either: 
   1. Creates a scope of work (SOW) outlining what they will be doing and what it will cost. This is the preferred method. 
   1. Creates a legal agreement that includes a SOW. This method requires the LF Legal team to review the contract before approving it for LF to sign. 
2. The vendor sends either their SOW or their legal agreement to the LF internal contact, usually the Program Manager. 
3. The LF internal contact goes to [staff.linuxfoundation.org](staff.linuxfoundation.org) and opens the ‘[HR Finance Ops](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/21)’ portal.
4. Inside the HR Finance Ops portal, click the ‘[Contractor & Vendor Requests](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/21/create/462)’ option and fill out the form. 
   1. In order to complete the form you will need this information from the contractor:
   1. Vendor name
   1. Name of signatory for contract
   1. Email address of signatory for contract
   1. Contractor’s physical mailing address
   1. Contractor start date
   1. Contractor duration
   1. Contractor type: individual or agency
   1. New contract or extension to an existing contractor agreement (requires LF Legal review)
   1. Standard LF contract (preferred) or 
   1. LF department or Project the contractor will be working for
   1. Description of work to align it with the correct budget code (ex: Marketing)
   1. Compensation type: hourly, salary, other
   1. Compensation amount
   1. Compensation max budget
   1. Name of LF internal manager
   1. Scope of work provided by the vendor (provided as an attachment)
5. You will receive a notification from Jira that your form has been submitted. 
6. Your request will be reviewed by the LF Finance team to ensure the department or project’s budget has enough revenue to cover the new expense.
7. Once approved by LF Finance, The LF HR Finance Ops team will create a Docusign agreement. You will receive a notification that the agreement is “out for signature” when it is sent to the first signatory. 
   1. The Docusign agreement is first sent to the Finance lead for that department or project for them to sign. 
   1. It is then routed to the LF internal manager (who will manage the contractor) for them to sign.
   1. Finally it is sent to the contract vendor for them to sign.
8. Once all three parties have signed the document you will receive a copy of it from Docusign. The three parties who signed it will also receive a copy.  
9. When it's time to pay, the vendor emails their invoice to the LF internal manager for them to review it. Once they approve payment on the invoice they forward it to [AP@Linuxfoundation.org](mailto:AP@Linuxfoundation.org) notifying them that the invoice is approved for payment. 
10. The LF Accounts Payable department will pay the invoice. 

## How to Change Member Roles
1. Project members should use the [Member Support Desk](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NHPRGfcyg8FVNlRC9-HX-hOIYbafXxtu5Bie3wNCvSg/edit?usp=sharing) to report changes in project roles.  If there are exceptions, and you feel like you need to do this yourself, please add the use case to this section of the handbook. To process a role change on behalf of a member organization (not recommended), open a Jira in the [Staff portal](https://staff.linuxfoundation.org/) and go to Membership and Sales Ops.
2. LF Operations will update the CRM (Customer Relationship Management, currently Salesforce, moving to Hubspot.) 
3. After LF Operations updates the CRM, they will notify the Project Administrator on the Jira. The Project Administrator updates the Project Control Center ([PCC](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/project-control-center-pre-release)) and the [Organization Dashboard](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i_0rHkjOzpqUOW5kTA4y_Y5taFR8-oRjwvmU3ME3VJ0/edit?usp=sharing). 
4. Make sure that everywhere else, outside of the PCC and Organization Dashboard, is also updated. Examples include calendar invitations, and email lists not managed within the PCC. 
5. Best practice is to refresh all the roles for the organization in that project to keep all contacts up to date.
